Hi everybody and welcome back this lecture we're going to look at reading an entire file and to do that
we need to first create a file.
So as you can see here I've got a couple of tabs open.
So the first one is called Movie reader duppy white which gives you an indication of what this program
will do.
And then the second time I have moviestar text which just contains some information about the movie
Avatar.
Now I'm getting my information from I NDB I've downloaded a data set of 5000 movies and this was the
first one from the top of the list and what into that dataset in a little bit later and other data sets
before the moment.
I just created a simple text file.
You can get this in the resource section of this lecture.
So back in our movie reader Doppie white How do we go about creating a program that will read our information
from movies or text into our program.
Well let's get started.
Let's add in some comments first today's the 15th.
My name and your name
on the program what is this program going to do.
It's going to read an entire file.
There we go.
OK so how do we start.
We start with where it opened and what's the name to find we want to open.
Well it's called moviestar text and this is surrounded by single quotes and as before you're moviestar
text and your movie reader duppy why file both of them have to be in the same directory or why it's
not going to work.
I will look at that later on as well as a file object call it next.
So contents are recreating a variable called contents equals file object.
And if we go that read and I'll explain this in detail in a few minutes.
Don't worry.
Finally print contents dot strips.
If you remember strip from previous lectures this takes all the whitespace to the left and right of
the information in a movies or text file.
Just in case it's been entered incorrectly.
Now let's run this and see what we get.
There we go.
James Cameron Avatar action it's an action movie Avatar is the name 2009 and this last number here 33000
is the number of Facebook likes that it got.
So we're going to be using that a little later on.
Not my favorite movie of all time not a great movie in my opinion but anyway it's the fourth on the
list from MTV.
And you can see here there is a text file that we've just imported into our program and output it to
our screen.
OK let's analyze this little program that we have here.
And let's begin by looking at the open function here to do any work with a file.
Even just print its contents.
We first need to open the file to access it.
The open function needs just one argument the name of the file we want to open.
And as you can see here we've given it an argument moviestar text pite and looks for this file into
the directory where the program that's currently being executed is stored.
So as I mentioned make sure that all your programs and your text files are in the same directory.
The open function returns an object representing the file here open moviestar text returns an object
representing moviestar text and stores this object in file object here to the pipe and key word with
at the beginning of a program closes the file.
Once access to it is no longer required.
Have you noticed yet how we use the function open but not the function close.
We could use close but if a bug in our program prevents the closing statement from being executed the
file may never close.
This may not seem important but improperly close files can cause data to be lost or corrupted.
All you have to do is open the file and work with it as desired.
Trusting that pipe will close automatically when the time is right.
Next we use the read method here.
This method reads the entire contents of the file and stores it as one long string in contents.
When we print the value of contents we get the entire text file back.
OK so I hope that was pretty easy to understand and work with.
In our next lecture we're going to look at five parts and get into further exploring files on textfiles.
Thanks for listening and I'll see you in the next lecture.